# Python-Challenge

The focus of this challenge was to develop two seperate Python scripts that would read and analyze two CSV files. In the first half of this challenge, we were required to determine the exact number of months in the dataset, the total number of profits over the entire period, the average change in profit, as well as the greatest increase and decresae in profits. Once the date was split into two seperate lists, the total number of months was determined by using a python function to find the total number of monthly financial entires listed. The total profits over the time period were found using a similar method. For loops were then applied to calculate the change between each monthly entry. These changes were then added together and averaged. The minimum and maximum functions were applied to determine the greatest increase and decrease in profits as well. All findings were then printed to the terminal, as well as a text file, which was relocated into the Analysis folder. 

In the second half of of this challenge, located in the PyPoll folder, the CSV file contained data gathered from an election. in oder to properly analyze the date to determine how many votes were cast, as well as how many votes each of the three candidates received, the date had to be split into three seperate listsThe total number of votes was determined by adding together the number of Voter IDs. A for loop and counters were then employeed to determine how many votes each candidate received. Each of these individual totals were then compared against the total number of votes overall to determine the percentage of votes each candidate won. From there, the max function was employed alongside a conditional print statement to determine the election winner. The results were then printed to the terminal, as well as a text file, which was then reloacted into the Analysis folder. 

While the website Stack Overflow was referenced to research concepts such as the file.write and shutil functions, used respectively to create a text file and move said text file to its correct location, no code was directly copied. 
